# DbObjectGeneration - HVR 6 | Fivetran Documentation

**Source:** https://fivetran.com/docs/hvr6/action-reference/dbobjectgeneration

---


[Edit on GitHub](https://github.com/fivetran/engineering/blob/main/docs/hvr6/action-reference/dbobjectgeneration/index.md)

# DbObjectGeneration


Action **DbObjectGeneration** allows control over the database objects which are generated by Fivetran HVR in the replicated databases. The action has no effect other than that of its parameters.

Parameters [**NoCaptureInsertTrigger**](#nocaptureinserttrigger), [**NoCaptureUpdateTrigger**](#nocaptureupdatetrigger), [**NoCaptureDeleteTrigger**](#nocapturedeletetrigger), [**NoCaptureDbProc**](#nocapturedbproc), [**NoCaptureTable**](#nocapturetable) can either be used to inhibit capturing of changes for trigger-based capture or can be used with parameter [**IncludeSqlFile**](#includesqlfile) to replace the procedures that HVR would normally generate with new procedures containing special logic.

> **Important:** 
The trigger-based capture method ([**Capture_Method**](https://fivetran.com/docs/hvr6/property-reference/location-properties#capturemethod)=**DB_TRIGGER**) has been deprecated since 6.2.0/0.


---

## Parameters


This section describes the parameters available for action **DbObjectGeneration**.

Following are the two tabs/ways, which you can use for defining action parameters in this dialog:

- **Regular**: Allows you to define the required parameters by using the UI elements like checkbox and text field.
- **Text**: Allows you to define the required parameters by specifying them in the text field. You can also copy-paste the action definitions from HVR documentation, emails, or demo notes.




### NoCaptureInsertTrigger


**Description:** Inhibit generation of capture insert trigger/rule.

---

### NoCaptureUpdateTrigger


**Description:** Inhibit generation of capture update trigger/rule.

---

### NoCaptureDeleteTrigger


**Description:** Inhibit generation of capture delete trigger/rule.

---

### NoCaptureDbProc


**Description:** Inhibit generation of capture database procedures.

---

### NoCaptureTable


**Description:** Inhibit generation of capture tables for trigger-based capture.

---

### NoIntegrateDbProc


**Description:** Inhibit generation of integrate database procedures.

---

### IncludeSqlFile


**Argument:** *file*

**Description:** Include file for customizing database objects.

Argument *file* can be an absolute pathname or a relative path in a directory specified with parameter [**IncludeSqlDirectory**](#includesqldirectory).

If this parameter is defined for any table, then it affects all objects generated for that location.

---

### IncludeSqlDirectory


**Argument:** *dir*

**Description:** Search directory *dir* for include SQL file.

If this parameter is defined for any table, then it affects all objects generated for that location.

---

### BurstTableStorage


SingleStore

**Description:** Storage for integrate burst table creation statement.

Available options are:

- 
**ROW_STORE** default: Creates rowstore tables.

- 
**COLUMN_STORE**: Creates columnstore tables.



For more information about rowstore and columnstore tables in SingleStore, refer to the [SingleStore documentation](https://docs.singlestore.com/managed-service/en/create-a-database/physical-database-schema-design/concepts-of-physical-database-schema-design.html).

---

### RefreshTableStorage


SingleStore

**Description:** Storage for base table creation statement during [**Refresh**](https://fivetran.com/docs/hvr6/user-interface/channels/refreshing-data).

Available options are:

- 
**ROW_STORE**: Creates rowstore tables.

- 
**COLUMN_STORE** default: Creates columnstore tables.



For more information about rowstore and columnstore tables in SingleStore, refer to the [SingleStore documentation](https://docs.singlestore.com/managed-service/en/create-a-database/physical-database-schema-design/concepts-of-physical-database-schema-design.html).

---

### CaptureTableCreateClause


**Argument:** *sqlexpression*

**Description:** Clause for capture table creation statement.

---

### StateTableCreateClause


**Argument:** *sqlexpression*

**Description:** Clause for state table creation statement. If this parameter is defined for any table, then it affects all state tables generated for that location.

---

### BurstTableCreateClause


**Argument:** *sqlexpression*

**Description:** Clause for integrate burst table creation statement.

---

### FailTableCreateClause


**Argument:** *sqlexpression*

**Description:** Clause for fail table creation statement. If this parameter is defined for any table, then it affects all tables integrated to that location.

---

### HistoryTableCreateClause


**Argument:** *sqlexpression*

**Description:** Clause for history table creation statement.

---

### RefreshTableCreateClause


**Argument:** *sqlexpression*

**Description:** Clause for base table creation statement during [**Refresh**](https://fivetran.com/docs/hvr6/getting-started/concepts/refresh). Allow all users to access HVR database objects.

---

### RefreshTableCreateType


<b>Since:</b> v6.2.5/8

**Argument:** *type*

**Description:** Specifies a table type that is inserted between the **CREATE** and **TABLE** keywords in the **CREATE TABLE** statement generated during a [**Refresh**](https://fivetran.com/docs/hvr6/getting-started/concepts/refresh) when the target table does not exist.

The specified type is used as-is for most databases. However, for some databases, additional action parameters are applied after **RefreshTableCreateType**:

- **HANA:** Parameter [**RefreshTableStorage**](#refreshtablestorage) of action **DbObjectGeneration** is applied.
- **Snowflake:** Parameter [**TransientTable**](https://fivetran.com/docs/hvr6/action-reference/tableproperties#transienttable) of action **TableProperties** is applied.


For example, in HANA, **RefreshTableCreateType=GLOBAL TEMPORARY** and **RefreshTableStorage=ROW_STORE** generate **CREATE GLOBAL TEMPORARY ROW TABLE**.

> **Important:** 
HVR does not validate the specified table type. You must ensure the type is supported by your target database to avoid creation failures or unexpected behavior.


---

### RefreshTableGrant


**Description:** Executes a grant statement on the base table created during [**Refresh**](https://fivetran.com/docs/hvr6/user-interface/channels/refreshing-data).

Available options are:

- 
**NONE** default: Do not execute grant statement.

- 
**SELECT_TO_PUBLIC**: executes GRANT SELECT ON <em>table_name</em> TO PUBLIC

- 
**ALL_TO_PUBLIC**: executes GRANT ALL ON <em>table_name</em> TO PUBLIC



The default behavior and available options of this parameter has changed in HVR version 6.1.5/5.
Click here for HVR versions until 6.1.5/5 and all versions in 6.1.0 release
Available options are:

- 
**NONE** (default, if the table is created in default schema): Do not execute grant statement.

- 
**SELECT_TO_PUBLIC**: executes GRANT SELECT ON <em>table_name</em> TO PUBLIC

- 
**ALL_TO_PUBLIC** default: executes GRANT ALL ON <em>table_name</em> TO PUBLIC



---

### BurstTableSchema


<b>Since:</b> v6.1.5/10

**Argument:** *schema*

**Description:** Defines a *schema* for storing burst tables, overriding the default schema configuration. The HVR user must have access to this schema.

> **Important:** 
Changing this value on existing channels leads to undefined behavior.


---

### StateTableSchema


<b>Since:</b> v6.1.5/10

**Argument:** *schema*

**Description:** Defines a *schema* for storing state tables, overriding the default schema configuration. The HVR user must have access to this schema.

> **Important:** 
Changing this value on existing channels leads to undefined behavior.


---

## Injecting SQL Include Files


Parameter [**IncludeSqlFile**](#includesqlfile) can be used to inject special logic inside standard SQL which is generated by [**hvractivate**](https://fivetran.com/docs/hvr6/command-line-interface/command-reference/hvractivate). The SQL that HVR would normally generate can be seen with [**hvractivate**](https://fivetran.com/docs/hvr6/command-line-interface/command-reference/hvractivate) option **-S**. Conditions (using **#ifdef** syntax lent from the C preprocessor), control where about this SQL is injected. There are twelve inject points (see diagram below). SQL code will be injected at a specific point depending on the **#ifdef** conditions specified for macros **_INCLUDING_***, **_CREATE**, **_DROP** and **_TABLE_NAME_***. If a file contains none of these conditions then its content will be injected in all twelve injections points.

These sections will not always be generated:

- 
Triggers are only generated for trigger-based capture locations (when [**Capture_Method**](https://fivetran.com/docs/hvr6/property-reference/location-properties#capturemethod) is set to **DB_TRIGGER**).

> **Important:** 
The trigger-based capture method has been deprecated since 6.2.0/0.


- 
Integrate database procedures are only defined if action [**Integrate**](https://fivetran.com/docs/hvr6/action-reference/integrate) is defined with parameter [**DbProc**](https://fivetran.com/docs/hvr6/action-reference/integrate#dbproc).

- 
The **_CREATE** section is omitted if [**hvractivate**](https://fivetran.com/docs/hvr6/command-line-interface/command-reference/hvractivate) option **-d** is defined without **-c**.

- 
Sections for specific tables are omitted if [**hvractivate**](https://fivetran.com/docs/hvr6/command-line-interface/command-reference/hvractivate) option **-t** is specified for different tables.

- 
Database procedures are only generated if [**hvractivate**](https://fivetran.com/docs/hvr6/command-line-interface/command-reference/hvractivate) option **-op** is defined or no **-o** option is supplied.

- 
Database procedures and triggers are only generated if [**hvractivate**](https://fivetran.com/docs/hvr6/command-line-interface/command-reference/hvractivate) option **-ot** is defined or no **-o** option is supplied.

> **Important:** 
The trigger-based capture method ([**Capture_Method**](https://fivetran.com/docs/hvr6/property-reference/location-properties#capturemethod)=**DB_TRIGGER**) has been deprecated since 6.2.0/0.






The following macros are defined by [**hvractivate**](https://fivetran.com/docs/hvr6/command-line-interface/command-reference/hvractivate) for the contents of the file specified by parameter [**IncludeSqlFile**](#includesqlfile). These can also be used with **#if** or **#ifdef** directives.
 Macro | Description |
 **_CREATE** | Defined when [**hvractivate**](https://fivetran.com/docs/hvr6/command-line-interface/command-reference/hvractivate) is creating database objects. |
 **_DB_CAPTURE** | Defined if action [**Capture**](https://fivetran.com/docs/hvr6/action-reference/capture) is defined on this location. |
 **_DB_INTEGRATE** | Defined if action [**Integrate**](https://fivetran.com/docs/hvr6/action-reference/integrate) is defined on this location. |
 **_DBPROC_COL_NAMES** | Contains the list of columns in the base table, separated by commas. |
 **_DBPROC_COL_VALS** | Contains the list of values in the base table, separated by commas. |
 **_DBPROC_KEY_EQ** | Contains **where** condition to join database procedure parameters to the key columns of the base table. For example, if the table has keys (**k1**, **k2**), then this macro will have value **k1**=**k1$** and **k2**=**k2$**. |
 **_DROP** | Defined when [**hvractivate**](https://fivetran.com/docs/hvr6/command-line-interface/command-reference/hvractivate) is dropping database objects. |
 **_FLAG_OC** | Defined when [**hvractivate**](https://fivetran.com/docs/hvr6/command-line-interface/command-reference/hvractivate) option **-oc** or no **-o** option is supplied. |
 **_FLAG_OP** | Defined when [**hvractivate**](https://fivetran.com/docs/hvr6/command-line-interface/command-reference/hvractivate) option **-op** or no **-o** option is supplied. |
 **_FLAG_OS** | Defined when [**hvractivate**](https://fivetran.com/docs/hvr6/command-line-interface/command-reference/hvractivate) option **-os** or no **-o** option is supplied. |
 **_FLAG_OT** | Defined when [**hvractivate**](https://fivetran.com/docs/hvr6/command-line-interface/command-reference/hvractivate) option **-ot** or no **-o** option is supplied. |
 **_HVR_VER** | HVR version number. |
 **_HVR_OP_VAL** | Defined when **_INCLUDING_INTEG_DBPROC_*** is defined with value 0, 1 or 2. It means the current database procedure is for delete, insert or update respectively. |
 **_INCLUDING_BEGIN** | Defined when [**hvractivate**](https://fivetran.com/docs/hvr6/command-line-interface/command-reference/hvractivate) is including the SQL file at the beginning of its SQL. |
 **_INCLUDING_END** | Defined when [**hvractivate**](https://fivetran.com/docs/hvr6/command-line-interface/command-reference/hvractivate) is including the SQL file at the end of its SQL. |
 **_INCLUDING_CAP_DBPROC_BEGIN** | Defined when [**hvractivate**](https://fivetran.com/docs/hvr6/command-line-interface/command-reference/hvractivate) is including the SQL file at the beginning of each capture database procedure. |
 **_INCLUDING_CAP_DBPROC_DECLARE** | Defined when [**hvractivate**](https://fivetran.com/docs/hvr6/command-line-interface/command-reference/hvractivate) is including the SQL file for the declare block of each capture database procedure. |
 **_INCLUDING_CAP_DBPROC_END** | Defined when [**hvractivate**](https://fivetran.com/docs/hvr6/command-line-interface/command-reference/hvractivate) is including the SQL file at the end of each capture database procedure. |
 **_INCLUDING_INTEG_DBPROC_BEGIN** | Defined when [**hvractivate**](https://fivetran.com/docs/hvr6/command-line-interface/command-reference/hvractivate) is including the SQL file at the beginning of each integrate database procedure. |
 **_INCLUDING_INTEG_DBPROC_DECLARE** | Defined when [**hvractivate**](https://fivetran.com/docs/hvr6/command-line-interface/command-reference/hvractivate) is including the SQL file for the declare block of each integrate database procedure. |
 **_INCLUDING_INTEG_DBPROC_END** | Defined when [**hvractivate**](https://fivetran.com/docs/hvr6/command-line-interface/command-reference/hvractivate) is including the SQL file at the end of each integrate database procedure. |
 **_INCLUDING_OVERRIDE_BEGIN** | Defined as [**hvractivate**](https://fivetran.com/docs/hvr6/command-line-interface/command-reference/hvractivate) is including the SQL file at a point where database objects can be dropped or created. Each SQL statement in this section must be preceded by macro **_SQL_BEGIN** and terminated with macro **_SQL_END**. |
 **_INCLUDING_OVERRIDE_END** | Defined as [**hvractivate**](https://fivetran.com/docs/hvr6/command-line-interface/command-reference/hvractivate) is including the SQL file at a point where database objects can be dropped or created. Each SQL statement in this section must be preceded by macro **_SQL_BEGIN** and terminated with macro **_SQL_END**. |
 **_INGRES** | Defined when the current location is an Ingres database. |
 **_LOC_DBNAME** | Database name. |
 **_LOC_NAME** | Name of current location. |
 **_ORACLE** | Defined when the current location is an Oracle database. |
 **TBL_NAME_***X* | Indicates that a database procedure for table *x* is generated. This macro is only defined when **_INCLUDING_*_DBPROC_*** is defined. |
 **_SQL_BEGIN** | Macro marking the beginning of an SQL statement in a section for **_INCLUDING_OVERRIDE**. |
 **_SQL_END** | Macro marking the end of an SQL statement for an **_INCLUDING_OVERRIDE** section. |
 **_SQLSERVER** | Defined when the current location is an SQL Server database. |

---

## Examples


This section describes examples of using various parameters of **DbObjectGeneration**.

##### Example 1. Replicate updates to column as differences, instead of as absolute values


The following example replicates updates to column **balance** of table **account** as differences, instead of as absolute values. The channel should contain the following actions: [**Capture**](https://fivetran.com/docs/hvr6/action-reference/capture) (not log-based), [**Integrate**](https://fivetran.com/docs/hvr6/action-reference/integrate) with parameter [**DbProc**](https://fivetran.com/docs/hvr6/action-reference/integrate#dbproc) (at least for this table) and **DbObjectGeneration** with parameter [**IncludeSqlFile**](#includesqlfile)=*inject.sql*.
#ifdef _TBL_NAME_ACCOUNT
  #ifdef _INCLUDING_CAP_DBPROC_BEGIN
    /* HVR will inject this SQL at the top of capture dbproc account__c */
    /* Note: old value is in <balance>, new value is <balance_> */
    if hvr_op = 2 then /* hvr_op = 2 means update */
      balance_ = balance_ - balance;
    endif;
  #endif

  #if defined _INCLUDING_INTEG_DBPROC_BEGIN && _HVR_OP_VAL == 2
    /* HVR will inject this SQL at the top of integ dbproc account__iu */
    select balance = balance + :balance
    from account
    where account_num = :account_num;
  #endif
#endif



##### Example 2. Capture changes from SQL views


The following example is a channel that captures changes from SQL views, which are supplied by the end user in file **include_view.sql**. The channel defines the [**Capture**](https://fivetran.com/docs/hvr6/action-reference/capture) for trigger-based capture, but then uses action **DbObjectGeneration** to disable automatic generation of all the trigger-based capture objects. Instead it uses parameter [**IncludeSqlFile**](#includesqlfile) to create a pair of capture views.

> **Important:** 
The trigger-based capture method ([**Capture_Method**](https://fivetran.com/docs/hvr6/property-reference/location-properties#capturemethod)=**DB_TRIGGER**) has been deprecated since 6.2.0/0.

#if defined _FLAG_OC && defined _DB_CAPTURE
  #ifdef _DROP
    #ifdef _INCLUDING_BEGIN
      _SQL_BEGIN_DROP
      drop view dm01_order__c0
      _SQL_END
      _SQL_BEGIN_DROP
      drop view dm01_order__c1
      _SQL_END
    #endif
  #endif

  #ifdef _CREATE
    #ifdef _INCLUDING_END
      _SQL_BEGIN
      create view dm01_order__c0 as
        select ' ' as hvr_tx_id,
               1 as hvr_op,
        #ifdef _ORACLE
               1 as hvr_seq,
               sysdate as hvr_cap_tstamp,
        #endif
        #ifdef _INGRES
               byte('', 8) as hvr_seq,
               date('now') as hvr_cap_tstamp,
        #endif
        #ifdef _SQLSERVER
               cast(1 as binary(8)) as hvr_seq,
               ' ' as hvr_cap_tstamp,
        #endif
               user as hvr_cap_user, dm01_order.prod_id, dm01_order.ord_id,
               dm01_order.cust_name, dm01_order.cust_addr, dm01_product.prod_price,
               dm01_product.prod_descrip
        from   dm01_order, dm01_product, hvr_toghvr_demo01
        where  dm01_order.prod_id = dm01_product.prod_id
          and  dm01_order.order_date >= hvr_toghvr_demo01.cap_begin_prev
          and  dm01_order.order_date < hvr_toghvr_demo01.cap_begin
      _SQL_END

      _SQL_BEGIN
      create view dm01_order__c1 as select * from dm01_order__c0
      _SQL_END
    #endif
  #endif
#endif



> **Important:** 
- 
If long data types are needed (such as Oracle **clob** or SQL Server **text**) then these should be excluded from the capture view but still registered in the HVR repository tables; the HVR capture job will then do a **select** with an outer-join to the base table (which could also be a view).

- 
Commands [**hvrcompare**](https://fivetran.com/docs/hvr6/command-line-interface/command-reference/hvrcompare) and [**hvrrefresh**](https://fivetran.com/docs/hvr6/command-line-interface/command-reference/hvrrefresh) can also have views on the 'read' side instead of regular tables. If action [**Integrate**](https://fivetran.com/docs/hvr6/action-reference/integrate) with parameter [**DbProc**](https://fivetran.com/docs/hvr6/action-reference/integrate#dbproc) is defined then row-wise refresh can also select from a view on the 'write' side before applying changes using a database procedure.




.actparam {
    padding-left: 20px;
}
